{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 By: Rachel Gregor rgregor@mit.edu \
\
This dataset consists of 101 fecal samples from a wide range of mammals collected in collaboration with a local zoo. Each sample underwent a range of MS analyses as well as 16S. \
\
Manuscript: \
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41396-021-01152-0\
\
Github:\
https://github.com/RachelGregor/ZooMicrobiomeMetabolome\
\
This folder contains:\
\'97metadata file, which has data on the animals as well as the file names for each data type for each sample.\
\'97Three LC-MS datasets: semi-polar, lipids positive, and lipids negative, all in format of *_quant.txt. This is output of an mzMine workflow for peak picking. \
\'97One GC-MS dataset, with quantification from the GCMS workflow on GNPS. \
\'97One GC-FID dataset with targeted quantification of key volatile fatty acids (VFAs). \
\'97One 16S ASV table (output from dada2 pipeline) plus tree\
\
\
Each of the four MS datasets went through the GNPS pipeline. I have included the ID files which should match the quant files\'97 we should spot check this though (eg compare index number to mass and retention time) if there are interesting metabolites though, just to be sure. \
\
}